---
title: "Stability analysis of nonlinear oscillator networks based on the mechanism of cascading failures"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2009-10-01-paper-title-number-1
excerpt: 'Complex networks; Power grid'
date: 2019-11-1
venue: 'Chaos, Solitons & Fractals'
paperurl: 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960077919302826'
citation: 'Huang Y, Dong H, Zhang W, et al. Stability analysis of nonlinear oscillator networks based on the mechanism of cascading failures[J]. Chaos, Solitons & Fractals, 2019, 128: 5-15.'
---
Traditional methods for resisting cascading failures mainly focus on optimizing the topology of the network. Recent research indicates that the exceptional dynamics of the nodes, which caused by an intentional attack, can also induce cascading failures of nonlinear oscillator networks. This implies that the tolerance of the network to cascading failures can be enhanced by stabilizing the exceptional nodes after the attack. In this paper, we have constructed a framework to identify and control the exceptional nodes of the network to avoid further cascading failures. First, the node with the largest load is removed to simulate the situation that the network is intentionally attacked and that will cause the exceptional dynamics of other nodes. Then, the exceptional nodes which can induce cascading failures are identified by the small disturbance analysis method. Finally, the specific external control will be applied in the exceptional nodes respectively to stabilize them based on the phase differences analysis of their dynamic equations. Results show that the number of exceptional nodes in the Sci-Grid and the Spanish power grid can be reduced by more than 50% via increasing the coupling strength and the unstable network can be stabilized by controlling the remaining exceptional nodes (usually no more than 10% of the total).

[Download paper here](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960077919302826)


If you are interested in this paper, please cite it as:
```
@article{huang2019stability,
  title={Stability analysis of nonlinear oscillator networks based on the mechanism of cascading failures},
  author={Huang, Yubo and Dong, Hongli and Zhang, Weidong and Lu, Junguo},
  journal={Chaos, Solitons \& Fractals},
  volume={128},
  pages={5--15},
  year={2019},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}
```